Over the course of eight years, GitHub Education has served
millions of students at thousands of schools. Version control offers
a number of affordances for students and teachers who use it to take
snapshots of their work, roll back to a known good state, and
collaborate on group projects. Students are motivated to build their
portfolios, learn industry best practices, and connect with hiring
managers. Teachers use Git and GitHub to automate their course
workflows and integrate real-world workflows. In fact, using GitHub in
the classroom predicts learning outcomes such as project
management, belonging in the field, and preparation for future work.
Teaching for the first job in industry
Teachers everywhere are pressed for time and resources. GitHub
Classroom, a tool to run courses on GitHub, lets teachers automate
assignment creation, access control, and track student progress.
Teachers often use their choice of continuous integration and
continuous delivery tools to automate feedback when students push
their code. This spring, GitHub Classroom added “autograding,” which
is an implementation of GitHub Actions. As of September 30, 14% of
assignments on Classroom use autograding and 360,579 tests have
been run across 67,398 repositories, preparing students for test-driven
development in the workplace.
Hands-on learning with distributed teams
In the spring of 2020, students who hoped to gain valuable experience
in summer internships began to receive disheartening news. Many
technical organizations couldn’t host students on-site and the
recession reduced funds for recruitment.
Together with a coalition of companies, GitHub and Major League Hacking
launched the MLH Fellowship, which connected students with a paid open
source summer project and paid a mentor to review their contributions.
Of the maintainers from the 36 open source projects, 76.2% reported that
their project was in a better state after the MLH Fellowship. The program
has evolved to three different tracks, with Facebook and AWS participating
again in the fall of 2020.
The common area in the cloud
Students are eager to find ways to connect and continue their learning
journeys. When it became clear that most seniors would not have a
typical graduation, GitHub Education offered a unique experience:
git remote graduation. By submitting a pull request, seniors could add
themselves to the “Class of 2020,”